README.md, before:

# 🤖 Robotics Platforms

**AI-Powered Hardware Engineering Platform**

[![Platform Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Operational-brightgreen)](https://www.roboticsplatforms.com/)
[![Built With](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tech-AI%2C%20Digital%20Twins%2C%20Embedded%20Systems-blue)](https://www.roboticsplatforms.com/)

---

## 📖 Overview

**Robotics Platforms** is a cutting-edge, AI-driven platform designed to **accelerate electronics design** and hardware development. It leverages advanced technologies like structured Large Language Models (LLMs), visual generative AI, real-time digital twins, and quantum-secure solutions to help businesses **Innovate, Optimize, and Secure** their next-generation hardware projects.

The platform provides a comprehensive suite of tools and services to transform traditional hardware workflows into automated, efficient, and predictive engineering processes.

---

<img src="https://github.com/PaulsGitHubs/Robotics-Platforms/blob/main/demos/circuit1.gif" alt="Circuit"/>
<br/>
<img src="https://github.com/PaulsGitHubs/Robotics-Platforms/blob/main/demos/digitaltwin-simul.gif" alt="Simulation"/>

## ✨ Core Capabilities

Robotics Platforms is built on five foundational capabilities that streamline the entire hardware engineering lifecycle:

### 1. AI-Powered Design

- **Transform Hardware Development:** Utilizes structured LLMs and visual generative AI to automate complex design tasks.
- **Hardware AI Solutions:** Provides AI-accelerated circuit design, automated schematic generation, **FPGA optimization**, power management analysis, and component compatibility checking.

### 2. Digital Twins

- **Real-Time Simulation:** Creates virtual replicas of physical systems for unparalleled performance optimization.
- **Predictive Analytics:** Enables real-time synchronization, failure scenario simulation, performance testing, and **remote monitoring** before physical deployment.

### 3. Embedded Systems

- **Firmware Engineering:** Offers expertise in developing cutting-edge, highly optimized firmware.
- **Hardware Solutions:** Provides bespoke services for complex and specialized hardware requirements.

### 4. AI Integration Services

- **Workflow Enhancement:** Custom development of AI solutions tailored to specific business needs.
- **Focus Areas:** Custom AI agent development, process automation, continuous optimization, and natural language interfaces.

### 5. Immersive Engine

- **Web-Based 3D Environments:** A powerful 3D engine for creating interactive simulations, physics-based rendering, and realistic **training environments**.
- **Features:** WebGL optimization, multiplayer support, and cross-platform compatibility.

---

## 📡 Public API Endpoints

The backend exposes a small public API for demo and integration purposes. These endpoints are intended to be safe for public access and resilient to upstream failures:

- `GET /` — basic service info and links to `/docs` and `/health`.
- `GET /health` — returns a small JSON health status (`{"status":"ok",...}`).
- `GET /api/geo/area?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — returns normalized coordinates for a given location.
- `GET /api/public-data/?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — returns a list of nearby OSM elements; if the upstream Overpass API is unavailable the endpoint returns an empty list (`[]`) and logs the error.
- `GET /api/telecom/?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>` — returns simulated telecom nodes for demonstration.
- `GET /api/simulation/zone?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — runs a short simulation using public-data and telecom data and returns a `zone`, `score`, and `correlation` summary.

---

## 🧪 Tests & Development

- Added simple pytest tests for `/health` and `/api/public-data` (`backend/tests/test_endpoints.py`).
- To run backend tests: `pip install -r backend/requirements.txt` then `pytest backend/tests`.

- Playwright E2E tests (frontend): the project includes Playwright tests to validate the Digital Twin UI. To run them locally:
  - From repo root: `cd frontend`
  - Install node deps: `npm install`
  - Install Playwright browsers: `npx playwright install`
  - Run tests: `npm run test:e2e` (or `npx playwright test`)
  - Note: Tests stub the Nominatim search endpoint so they do not rely on external network services.

Cesium Ion & 3D buildings

- Place your Cesium Ion token in `.env` as `CESIUM_ION_TOKEN` (the Flask and FastAPI servers read this variable and pass it to the front-end templates).
- When a token is available the UI will prefer Cesium World Imagery/World Terrain and can load Ion 3D tilesets (e.g. NYC buildings) via the **Load 3D Buildings** button.

Search autocomplete

- The search box uses Nominatim to fetch suggestions as you type and populates a datalist. To run the E2E test that validates this, Playwright stubs the Nominatim endpoint.

Click-to-place objects

- Use the **Place Car** button to toggle placement mode, then click on the globe to place a sample car model (`/static/assets/models/cars/sedan.glb`).

Fixes and notes relevant to UI bugs discovered:

- Fixed a CodeMirror initialization bug (null textarea) by making editor init defensive. This prevents an uncaught exception ("Cannot read properties of null (reading 'value')") that could halt page initialization.
- Fixed the search panel to ignore empty queries and added a guard so it does nothing if the expected UI elements are not present. An E2E test now stubs Nominatim and verifies searching for "New York" moves the camera.
- Physics files were moved to `frontend/static/js/physics/` to avoid 404s and `physics_bridge` attaches physics body to the Cesium entity for better integration.

---

## 🖥️ Serving the demo templates locally ⚙️

To view the `templates/` demo pages (for example `digital_twin.modular.html`) in your browser locally, use one of the following helpers from the repository root:

- Windows (cmd): `scripts\serve_templates.bat`
- PowerShell: `./scripts/serve_templates.ps1`
- Python (cross-platform): `python scripts/serve_templates.py`

These start a simple static server on port **5500** and will open the demo URL automatically: `http://127.0.0.1:5500/templates/digital_twin.modular.html`.

> Note: Typing or pasting a raw URL directly into the terminal will cause a "command not found" (exit code 127) error — paste the URL into your browser address bar or use the helper scripts above to open it.

---

## Changelog (unreleased)

- Robustness: `fetch_osm_objects` now handles timeouts/network errors and returns an empty list on failure to keep public endpoints stable.
- Quality: Added health and root endpoints and a small favicon handler to reduce noisy 404s.
- Tests: Added basic pytest tests for key public endpoints.

---

## ✅ Testing & CI

We include a small test suite covering key public endpoints and auth behavior. The project uses GitHub Actions to run tests and `pip-audit` on pull requests.

Quick local steps:

```bash
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
python -m pip install -r backend/requirements.txt
python -m pytest backend/tests
```

CI: see `.github/workflows/ci.yml` which installs deps, runs tests, and runs `pip-audit`.

---

## 🔗 Endpoints (short reference)

- `GET /` — service info (links to `/docs` and `/health`).
- `GET /health` — JSON health status for monitoring.
- `GET /api/geo/area?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — normalized coordinates.
- `GET /api/public-data/?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — returns OSM elements, returns `[]` if upstream fails.
- `GET /api/telecom/?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>` — simulated telecom nodes (requires `X-API-Key` header: user or admin role).
- `GET /api/simulation/zone?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — simulation endpoint (requires `X-API-Key` header: admin role).

---

## 🔐 Security & Secrets

- Do not commit secrets (e.g., API keys) to the repository. Use `.env` (ignored) for local development and provide a `.env.example` for reference.
- Use GitHub Secrets or Vault for production secrets and the CI pipeline.
- See `SECURITY.md` for more details and recommendations.

---

## 🧭 How to open a Pull Request

1. Create a feature branch:

```bash
git fetch origin
git checkout main
git pull origin main
git checkout -b feature/docs-tests-pr
```

2. Commit logically grouped changes and run tests locally.

```bash
git add <files>
git commit -m "docs: add testing and endpoints; PR instructions"
python -m pytest backend/tests
```

3. Push and open a PR:

```bash
git push -u origin feature/docs-tests-pr
# Open a PR on GitHub from that branch into main, include:
# - summary of changes
# - test results
# - security notes
```

---

## If you'd like, I can push this branch and open the PR for you (I can attempt to use the GitHub CLI if available).

## Asset collection helper

A small utility script helps download 3D model files (OBJ/GLTF/GLB) into the `frontend/static/assets/models/` folder for local hosting and testing:

```bash
# download single files
python scripts/download_models.py --out frontend/static/assets/models/ https://example.com/airplane.obj https://example.com/car.glb

# or provide a file with URLs (one per line)
python scripts/download_models.py --file urls.txt
```

This makes it simple to gather airplane, car, radio, and sensor models to be used in the Digital Twin.

## 🛠️ Integrated Tools & Demos

The platform offers several interactive tools and demonstrations for hands-on experience:

- **Circuit Simulator:** An integrated version of the **EveryCircuit** tool for schematic drawing and simulation.
- **AI Chat Interface:** A direct interface to interact with the platform's AI assistant for technical questions and support.
- **Digital Twin Demo:** Explore a live demonstration of real-time system monitoring and optimization using digital twin technology.
- **Immersive Engine Demo:** Test the capabilities of the web-based 3D simulation and training environment.
- **QLX Quantum Encryption:** A demonstration of **Military-Grade Post-Quantum Encryption/Decryption** technology for securing data and communication.

---

## 🤝 Technology & Security

The platform partners with leading technology providers to ensure high performance and security:

| Category          | Partner Examples                           |
| :---------------- | :----------------------------------------- |
| **Cloud/AI**      | Google, AWS, NVIDIA, Microsoft, Intel, AMD |
| **OS/Foundation** | Linux Foundation                           |
| **Security**      | QLX (Quantum-secure encryption)            |

### Quantum Security

All solutions are reinforced with state-of-the-art **QLX Post-Quantum Encryption/Decryption** to provide military-grade security against future threats, ensuring sensitive designs and communications remain confidential.

---

## 🚀 Getting Started & Contact

### 1. Explore Demos

Test the core features immediately by exploring the **Circuit Simulator**, **AI Chat Interface**, and the various **Digital Twin** and **Immersive Engine** demos available on the main website (<a href="https://www.roboticsplatforms.com/">https://www.roboticsplatforms.com/</a>).

### 2. Partner with Us

For custom projects, enterprise solutions, or to initiate a partnership:

- **Book a Meeting:** Directly schedule a consultation with the engineering team.
- **Partnership Benefits:** Opportunities to become a preferred partner and access exclusive benefits (e.g., cloud credits).

### 3. Resources

- **Research & Blogs:** Access articles and insights into the latest in AI and hardware engineering.
- **Whitepapers:** Download detailed documents on the platform's methodologies and technologies.

Commit message:

fix(simulation): stabilize physics loop with silent offline fallback and safe asset handling

README.md, after:

# 🤖 Robotics Platforms

**AI-Powered Hardware Engineering Platform**

[![Platform Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Operational-brightgreen)](https://www.roboticsplatforms.com/)
[![Built With](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tech-AI%2C%20Digital%20Twins%2C%20Embedded%20Systems-blue)](https://www.roboticsplatforms.com/)

---

## 📖 Overview

**Robotics Platforms** is a cutting-edge, AI-driven platform designed to **accelerate electronics design** and hardware development. It leverages advanced technologies like structured Large Language Models (LLMs), visual generative AI, real-time digital twins, and quantum-secure solutions to help businesses **Innovate, Optimize, and Secure** their next-generation hardware projects.

The platform provides a comprehensive suite of tools and services to transform traditional hardware workflows into automated, efficient, and predictive engineering processes.

---

<img src="https://github.com/PaulsGitHubs/Robotics-Platforms/blob/main/demos/circuit1.gif" alt="Circuit"/>
<br/>
<img src="https://github.com/PaulsGitHubs/Robotics-Platforms/blob/main/demos/digitaltwin-simul.gif" alt="Simulation"/>

## ✨ Core Capabilities

Robotics Platforms is built on five foundational capabilities that streamline the entire hardware engineering lifecycle:

### 1. AI-Powered Design

- **Transform Hardware Development:** Utilizes structured LLMs and visual generative AI to automate complex design tasks.
- **Hardware AI Solutions:** Provides AI-accelerated circuit design, automated schematic generation, **FPGA optimization**, power management analysis, and component compatibility checking.

### 2. Digital Twins

- **Real-Time Simulation:** Creates virtual replicas of physical systems for unparalleled performance optimization.
- **Predictive Analytics:** Enables real-time synchronization, failure scenario simulation, performance testing, and **remote monitoring** before physical deployment.

### 3. Embedded Systems

- **Firmware Engineering:** Offers expertise in developing cutting-edge, highly optimized firmware.
- **Hardware Solutions:** Provides bespoke services for complex and specialized hardware requirements.

### 4. AI Integration Services

- **Workflow Enhancement:** Custom development of AI solutions tailored to specific business needs.
- **Focus Areas:** Custom AI agent development, process automation, continuous optimization, and natural language interfaces.

### 5. Immersive Engine

- **Web-Based 3D Environments:** A powerful 3D engine for creating interactive simulations, physics-based rendering, and realistic **training environments**.
- **Features:** WebGL optimization, multiplayer support, and cross-platform compatibility.

---

## 📡 Public API Endpoints

The backend exposes a small public API for demo and integration purposes. These endpoints are intended to be safe for public access and resilient to upstream failures:

- `GET /` — basic service info and links to `/docs` and `/health`.
- `GET /health` — returns a small JSON health status (`{"status":"ok",...}`).
- `GET /api/geo/area?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — returns normalized coordinates for a given location.
- `GET /api/public-data/?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — returns a list of nearby OSM elements; if the upstream Overpass API is unavailable the endpoint returns an empty list (`[]`) and logs the error.
- `GET /api/telecom/?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>` — returns simulated telecom nodes for demonstration.
- `GET /api/simulation/zone?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — runs a short simulation using public-data and telecom data and returns a `zone`, `score`, and `correlation` summary.

---

## Physics Architecture ✅

This project includes a deterministic physics architecture for the Digital Twin demo. Key points:

- **Modes:** Two runtime physics modes are supported: **Light** (JavaScript lightweight integrator) and **Ammo** (compiled Bullet via Ammo.js). Switch at runtime with the UI selector or via `PhysicsRouter.setMode()`.
- **Deterministic loop:** Physics runs on a fixed timestep (1/60 s). The loop is attached to Cesium's `postRender` callback and accumulates delta time — physics is stepped only on fixed ticks (no per-frame stepping).
- **Physics Router:** All physics stepping and body registration are routed through `frontend/static/js/physics-runtime/PhysicsRouter.js`. Use its `registerBody` / `unregisterBody` APIs. The router delegates to Ammo or the lightweight integrator depending on the current mode.
- **Cesium binding:** When creating a dynamic entity use `physics_bridge.enablePhysics(entity, options)` which sets up a `CallbackProperty` on the Cesium entity so visuals are driven by physics state, not the other way around. The physics runtime synchronizes transforms after each fixed tick.
- **Entity rules:** Dynamic entities must have a `mass` > 0, `isStatic` flag disables updates. Static objects are not updated by the physics engine.
- **Multiplayer & reconciliation:** A `PhysicsNetwork` client can send player inputs only and receive authoritative state snapshots (`id`, `position`, `velocity`). Clients perform prediction locally and converge to server snapshots via interpolation (no teleporting).
- **Debugging & tools:** A small overlay shows current physics mode and tick activity; wireframe/bounding visualizations and tick logging are available in the runtime modules.

---

## 🧪 Tests & Development

- Added simple pytest tests for `/health` and `/api/public-data` (`backend/tests/test_endpoints.py`).
- To run backend tests: `pip install -r backend/requirements.txt` then `pytest backend/tests`.

- Playwright E2E tests (frontend): the project includes Playwright tests to validate the Digital Twin UI. To run them locally:
  - From repo root: `cd frontend`
  - Install node deps: `npm install`
  - Install Playwright browsers: `npx playwright install`
  - Run tests: `npm run test:e2e` (or `npx playwright test`)
  - Note: Tests stub the Nominatim search endpoint so they do not rely on external network services.

Cesium Ion & 3D buildings

- Place your Cesium Ion token in `.env` as `CESIUM_ION_TOKEN` (the Flask and FastAPI servers read this variable and pass it to the front-end templates).
- When a token is available the UI will prefer Cesium World Imagery/World Terrain and can load Ion 3D tilesets (e.g. NYC buildings) via the **Load 3D Buildings** button.

Search autocomplete

- The search box uses Nominatim to fetch suggestions as you type and populates a datalist. To run the E2E test that validates this, Playwright stubs the Nominatim endpoint.

Click-to-place objects

- Use the **Place Car** button to toggle placement mode, then click on the globe to place a sample car model (`/static/assets/models/cars/sedan.glb`).

Fixes and notes relevant to UI bugs discovered:

- Fixed a CodeMirror initialization bug (null textarea) by making editor init defensive. This prevents an uncaught exception ("Cannot read properties of null (reading 'value')") that could halt page initialization.
- Fixed the search panel to ignore empty queries and added a guard so it does nothing if the expected UI elements are not present. An E2E test now stubs Nominatim and verifies searching for "New York" moves the camera.
- Physics files were moved to `frontend/static/js/physics/` to avoid 404s and `physics_bridge` attaches physics body to the Cesium entity for better integration.

---

## 🖥️ Serving the demo templates locally ⚙️

To view the `templates/` demo pages (for example `digital_twin.modular.html`) in your browser locally, use one of the following helpers from the repository root:

- Windows (cmd): `scripts\serve_templates.bat`
- PowerShell: `./scripts/serve_templates.ps1`
- Python (cross-platform): `python scripts/serve_templates.py`

These start a simple static server on port **5500** and will open the demo URL automatically: `http://127.0.0.1:5500/templates/digital_twin.modular.html`.

> Note: Typing or pasting a raw URL directly into the terminal will cause a "command not found" (exit code 127) error — paste the URL into your browser address bar or use the helper scripts above to open it.

---

## Changelog (unreleased)

- Robustness: `fetch_osm_objects` now handles timeouts/network errors and returns an empty list on failure to keep public endpoints stable.
- Quality: Added health and root endpoints and a small favicon handler to reduce noisy 404s.
- Tests: Added basic pytest tests for key public endpoints.

---

## ✅ Testing & CI

We include a small test suite covering key public endpoints and auth behavior. The project uses GitHub Actions to run tests and `pip-audit` on pull requests.

Quick local steps:

```bash
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
python -m pip install -r backend/requirements.txt
python -m pytest backend/tests
```

CI: see `.github/workflows/ci.yml` which installs deps, runs tests, and runs `pip-audit`.

---

## 🔗 Endpoints (short reference)

- `GET /` — service info (links to `/docs` and `/health`).
- `GET /health` — JSON health status for monitoring.
- `GET /api/geo/area?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — normalized coordinates.
- `GET /api/public-data/?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — returns OSM elements, returns `[]` if upstream fails.
- `GET /api/telecom/?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>` — simulated telecom nodes (requires `X-API-Key` header: user or admin role).
- `GET /api/simulation/zone?lat=<lat>&lng=<lng>&radius=<r>` — simulation endpoint (requires `X-API-Key` header: admin role).

---

## 🔐 Security & Secrets

- Do not commit secrets (e.g., API keys) to the repository. Use `.env` (ignored) for local development and provide a `.env.example` for reference.
- Use GitHub Secrets or Vault for production secrets and the CI pipeline.
- See `SECURITY.md` for more details and recommendations.

---

## 🧭 How to open a Pull Request

1. Create a feature branch:

```bash
git fetch origin
git checkout main
git pull origin main
git checkout -b feature/docs-tests-pr
```

2. Commit logically grouped changes and run tests locally.

```bash
git add <files>
git commit -m "docs: add testing and endpoints; PR instructions"
python -m pytest backend/tests
```

3. Push and open a PR:

```bash
git push -u origin feature/docs-tests-pr
# Open a PR on GitHub from that branch into main, include:
# - summary of changes
# - test results
# - security notes
```

---

## If you'd like, I can push this branch and open the PR for you (I can attempt to use the GitHub CLI if available).

## Asset collection helper

A small utility script helps download 3D model files (OBJ/GLTF/GLB) into the `frontend/static/assets/models/` folder for local hosting and testing:

```bash
# download single files
python scripts/download_models.py --out frontend/static/assets/models/ https://example.com/airplane.obj https://example.com/car.glb

# or provide a file with URLs (one per line)
python scripts/download_models.py --file urls.txt
```

This makes it simple to gather airplane, car, radio, and sensor models to be used in the Digital Twin.

## 🛠️ Integrated Tools & Demos

The platform offers several interactive tools and demonstrations for hands-on experience:

- **Circuit Simulator:** An integrated version of the **EveryCircuit** tool for schematic drawing and simulation.
- **AI Chat Interface:** A direct interface to interact with the platform's AI assistant for technical questions and support.
- **Digital Twin Demo:** Explore a live demonstration of real-time system monitoring and optimization using digital twin technology.
- **Immersive Engine Demo:** Test the capabilities of the web-based 3D simulation and training environment.
- **QLX Quantum Encryption:** A demonstration of **Military-Grade Post-Quantum Encryption/Decryption** technology for securing data and communication.

---

## 🤝 Technology & Security

The platform partners with leading technology providers to ensure high performance and security:

| Category          | Partner Examples                           |
| :---------------- | :----------------------------------------- |
| **Cloud/AI**      | Google, AWS, NVIDIA, Microsoft, Intel, AMD |
| **OS/Foundation** | Linux Foundation                           |
| **Security**      | QLX (Quantum-secure encryption)            |

### Quantum Security

All solutions are reinforced with state-of-the-art **QLX Post-Quantum Encryption/Decryption** to provide military-grade security against future threats, ensuring sensitive designs and communications remain confidential.

---

## 🚀 Getting Started & Contact

### 1. Explore Demos

Test the core features immediately by exploring the **Circuit Simulator**, **AI Chat Interface**, and the various **Digital Twin** and **Immersive Engine** demos available on the main website (<a href="https://www.roboticsplatforms.com/">https://www.roboticsplatforms.com/</a>).

### 2. Partner with Us

For custom projects, enterprise solutions, or to initiate a partnership:

- **Book a Meeting:** Directly schedule a consultation with the engineering team.
- **Partnership Benefits:** Opportunities to become a preferred partner and access exclusive benefits (e.g., cloud credits).

### 3. Resources

- **Research & Blogs:** Access articles and insights into the latest in AI and hardware engineering.
- **Whitepapers:** Download detailed documents on the platform's methodologies and technologies.
